README.md, before:

# Python Personal Libraries

### Available version

* *version 1.000* :  Released in September 2020. It was released in order for me to have a stable version that was compatible with my summer projects. There is still a lot to do on it. 
* *version 1.142* : Released in June 2021. The library is better documented, and better structured. It is now separated in the corresponding libraries, and there are tests for most of the functions.
* current work : incorporate new financial functions, 3D plots as well as neural networks functions. Estimator is being reworked. This version is expected to be released by Winter 2022.


One should download the latest version and add the path to it to the interpreter before running code.

### General information

The aim of this repository is to automatise and optimise classical python routines. We detail here the different directories available, which depends on the intended usage. 

Some functions are simple classical routines. Other files offer more advanced code, involving wrappers classes, classes objects, metaclasses…

Finally, we are trying to incorporate some C++ routines in the code for very efficient code. This part is still in the project phase.
 
### Structure of the Project and how to import

The main structure is the following:
```
Project
├── priv_lib_error 
│  ├── src
│  │  ├── error_convergence.py
│  │  ├── error_not_allowed_input.py
│  │  ├── error_not_enough_information.py
│  │  ├── error_not_yet_allowed.py
│  │  ├── error_type_setter.py
│  │  ├── numpy_function_used.py  (not really interesting for general purpose)
│  │  └── warning_deprecated.py
│  └── tests
│
├── priv_lib_estimator 
│  ├── src
│  │  ├── estimator
│  │  │  └── estimator.py
│  │  └── plot_estimator
│  │     ├── distplot_estimator.py
│  │     ├── plot_estimator.py
│  │     └── relplot_estimator.py
│  └── tests
│
├── priv_lib_metaclass 
│  ├── src
│  │  └── register
│  │     ├── deco_register.py
│  │     └── register.py
│  └── tests
│
├── priv_lib_plot 
│  ├── src
│  │  ├── acolor
│  │  │  ├── acolorsetdiscrete.py
│  │  │  └── acolorsetcontinuous.py
│  │  └── aplot
│  │     ├── aplot.py
│  │     └── dict_ax_for_aplot.py
│  └── tests
│
└── priv_lib_util 
   ├── calculus
   │  ├── src
   │  │  ├── diff_eq.py
   │  │  ├── integration.py
   │  │  └── optimization.py
   │  └── tests
   ├── finance
   │  ├── src
   │  │  └── financial.py
   │  └── tests
   ├── ML  
   │  ├── src
   │  │  └── networkx.py
   │  └── tests
   └── tools
      ├── src
      │  ├── benchmarking.py
      │  ├── decorator.py
      │  ├── function_dict.py
      │  ├── function_iterable.py
      │  ├── function_recurrent.py
      │  ├── function_str.py
      │  ├── function_writer.py
      │  └── operator.py
      └── tests
```

However, one can import the meaningful objects in the following way, where one `from path import object`:

```
Project
├── priv_lib_error 
│  ├── Error_convergence.py
│  ├── Error_not_allowed_input.py
│  ├── Error_not_enough_information.py
│  ├── Error_not_yet_allowed.py
│  ├── Error_type_setter.py
│  └── deprecated_function.py
│
├── priv_lib_estimator 
│  ├── Estimator
│  ├── Plot_estimator
│  ├── Histogram_estimator
│  ├── Statistic_plot_estimator
│  └── Evolution_plot_estimator
│
├── priv_lib_metaclass 
│  ├── deco_register
│  └── Register
│
├── priv_lib_plot 
│  ├── APlot
│  ├── AColorsetDiscrete
│  └── AColorsetContinuous
│
└── priv_lib_util 
   ├── calculus
   │  ├── diff_eq.py
   │  ├── integration.py
   │  └── optimization.py
   ├── finance
   │  └── financial.py
   ├── ML  
   │  └── networkx.py
   └── tools
      ├── benchmarking.py
      ├── decorator.py
      ├── function_dict.py
      ├── function_iterable.py
      ├── function_recurrent.py
      ├── function_str.py
      ├── function_writer.py
      └── operator.py
```




For example, in order to import `benchmarking.py`, one should write:  `from priv_lib_util.tools import benchmarking`

Also, the priv_lib are codependent in the following way:

```mermaid
graph TD;
    priv_lib_error-->priv_lib_util;
    priv_lib_util-->priv_lib_plot;
    priv_lib_plot-->priv_lib_estimator;
    priv_lib_metaclass-->priv_lib_plot
    priv_lib_estimator-->priv_lib_ml

```

Meaning one can download only part of the library by keeping these relationship in mind.

* All libraries start with the name `priv_lib_{NAME LIBRARY}`,
inside each library,  there is a source folder and a tests folder. In order to import any module, one should simply write:

```
from priv_lib import module
or
from priv_lib.extension import module
```

Then, the functions written in the module are callable with:

```
module.function()
```

if one wants to simply use the name of the function without refering to the private call table of the library, one can write:

```
function = module.function

function()
```


## library_errors

Custom errors for better handling of errors in the library. They all inherit from the built-in exception and intends to make the code clearer.

* **Error_convergence** inherits from Exception,
* **Error_not_allowed_input** inherits from ValueError,
* **Error_not_enough_information** inherits from ValueError,
* **Error_not_yet_allowed** inherits from ValueError,
* **Error_type_setter** inherits from TypeError,
* **Warning_deprecated** function that rise a deprecation warning.

## priv_lib_estimator

## priv_lib_metaclass

## priv_lib_ML

## priv_lib_plot

## priv_lib_util



||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
We created two original objects. 

* **APlot** : A class that simplifies drawing using the library matplotlib ; 
* **Estimator** : A class that intends to make dataframes more accessible.

Commit message:

correction of the MD.
i also changed (refactored) some comments everywhere, making the commit big.

README.md, after:

# Python Personal Libraries

### Available version

* *version 1.000* :  Released in September 2020. It was released in order for me to have a stable version that was compatible with my summer projects. There is still a lot to do on it. 
* *version 1.142* : Released in June 2021. The library is better documented, and better structured. It is now separated in the corresponding libraries, and there are tests for most of the functions.
* current work : incorporate new financial functions, 3D plots as well as neural networks functions. Estimator is being reworked. This version is expected to be released by Winter 2022.


One should download the latest version and add the path to it to the interpreter before running code.

### General information

The aim of this repository is to automatise and optimise classical python routines. We detail here the different directories available, which depends on the intended usage. 

Some functions are simple classical routines. Other files offer more advanced code, involving wrappers classes, classes objects, metaclasses…

Finally, we are trying to incorporate some C++ routines in the code for very efficient code. This part is still in the project phase.
 
### Structure of the Project and how to import

The main structure is the following:
```
Project
├── priv_lib_error 
│  ├── src
│  │  ├── error_convergence.py
│  │  ├── error_not_allowed_input.py
│  │  ├── error_not_enough_information.py
│  │  ├── error_not_yet_allowed.py
│  │  ├── error_type_setter.py
│  │  ├── numpy_function_used.py  (not really interesting for general purpose)
│  │  └── warning_deprecated.py
│  └── tests
│
├── priv_lib_estimator 
│  ├── src
│  │  ├── estimator
│  │  │  └── estimator.py
│  │  └── plot_estimator
│  │     ├── distplot_estimator.py
│  │     ├── plot_estimator.py
│  │     └── relplot_estimator.py
│  └── tests
│
├── priv_lib_metaclass 
│  ├── src
│  │  └── register
│  │     ├── deco_register.py
│  │     └── register.py
│  └── tests
│
├── priv_lib_plot 
│  ├── src
│  │  ├── acolor
│  │  │  ├── acolorsetdiscrete.py
│  │  │  └── acolorsetcontinuous.py
│  │  └── aplot
│  │     ├── aplot.py
│  │     └── dict_ax_for_aplot.py
│  └── tests
│
└── priv_lib_util 
   ├── calculus
   │  ├── src
   │  │  ├── diff_eq.py
   │  │  ├── integration.py
   │  │  └── optimization.py
   │  └── tests
   ├── finance
   │  ├── src
   │  │  ├── bs_model.py
   │  │  ├── financials.py
   │  │  ├── implied_vol.py
   │  │  └── param_iv.py
   │  └── tests
   ├── ML  
   │  ├── src
   │  │  └── networkx.py
   │  └── tests
   └── tools
      ├── src
      │  ├── benchmarking.py
      │  ├── decorator.py
      │  ├── function_dict.py
      │  ├── function_iterable.py
      │  ├── function_recurrent.py
      │  ├── function_json.py
      │  ├── function_str.py
      │  ├── function_writer.py
      │  └── operator.py
      └── tests
```

However, one can import the meaningful objects in the following way, where one `from path import object`:



```
Project
├── priv_lib_error 
│  ├── Error_convergence.py
│  ├── Error_not_allowed_input.py
│  ├── Error_not_enough_information.py
│  ├── Error_not_yet_allowed.py
│  ├── Error_type_setter.py
│  └── deprecated_function.py
│
├── priv_lib_estimator 
│  ├── Estimator.py
│  ├── Plot_estimator.py
│  ├── Distplot_estimator.py
│  └── Relplot_estimator.py
│
├── priv_lib_metaclass 
│  ├── deco_register.py
│  └── Register.py
│
├── priv_lib_plot 
│  ├── APlot.py
│  ├── AColorsetDiscrete.py
│  └── AColorsetContinuous.py
│
└── priv_lib_util 
   ├── calculus
   │  ├── diff_eq.py
   │  ├── integration.py
   │  └── optimization.py
   ├── finance
   │  ├── bs_model.py
   │  ├── financials.py
   │  ├── implied_vol.py
   │  └── param_iv.py
   ├── ML  
   │  └── networkx.py
   └── tools
      ├── benchmarking.py
      ├── decorator.py
      ├── function_dict.py
      ├── function_iterable.py
      ├── function_json.py
      ├── function_recurrent.py
      ├── function_str.py
      ├── function_writer.py
      └── operator.py
```




For example, in order to import `benchmarking.py`, one should write:  `from priv_lib_util.tools import benchmarking`

Also, the priv_lib are codependent in the following way:

```mermaid
graph TD;
    priv_lib_error-->priv_lib_util;
    priv_lib_util-->priv_lib_plot;
    priv_lib_plot-->priv_lib_estimator;
    priv_lib_metaclass-->priv_lib_plot
    priv_lib_estimator-->priv_lib_ml

```

Meaning one can download only part of the library by keeping these relationship in mind.

* All libraries start with the name `priv_lib_{NAME LIBRARY}`,
inside each library,  there is a source folder and a tests folder. In order to import any module, one should simply write:

```
from priv_lib import module
or
from priv_lib.extension import module
```

Then, the functions written in the module are callable with:

```
module.function()
```

if one wants to simply use the name of the function without refering to the private call table of the library, one can write:

```
function = module.function

function()
```


## library_errors

Custom errors for better handling of errors in the library. They all inherit from the built-in exception and intends to make the code clearer.

* **Error_convergence** inherits from Exception,
* **Error_not_allowed_input** inherits from ValueError,
* **Error_not_enough_information** inherits from ValueError,
* **Error_not_yet_allowed** inherits from ValueError,
* **Error_type_setter** inherits from TypeError,
* **Warning_deprecated** function that rise a deprecation warning.

## priv_lib_estimator

* **Estimator** : A class that intends to make dataframes more accessible.
* **Plotters** : Classes of objects that extend the behavior of seaborns' in-built functions. 
  We used seaborn's names for the classes and methods. 
  We rely on polymorphism to adapt behavior of general functions to each case's need.
  
## priv_lib_metaclass
Metaclasses are most the times unnecessary. However, in some cases, they carry the exact idea needed for some design. 
For now, we only use metaclasses for `APlot`, where it allows a registration pattern for all plots.

## priv_lib_ML

## priv_lib_plot

## priv_lib_util



||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
We created two original objects. 

* **APlot** : A class that simplifies drawing using the library matplotlib ;
