corai/src/classes/estimator/hyper_parameters/tutorial_estim_hyperparameter.md, before:

# Hyper-parameters example

The tutorial follows closely the `tests/example_hyper_param.py` file.

### 0. Setup (Grid search)

The library offers an easy way to produce all the combinations of the parameters tweaked: a grid search regarding a list
of parameters.

- Define the options for each parameter as a dictionary of lists:

```python
params_options = {
    'lr': [0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.1],
    'activation_function': ['tanh'],
    'dropout': [0., 0.2, 0.5],
    'list_hidden_sizes': [[2, 4, 2], [4, 8, 4]]
}
```

- Use the `parameter_product` function (from `corai_util`) to produce all the possible combinations in the format of a
  list:

```python
hyper_params = corai_util.function_dict.parameter_product(params_options)
for params in hyper_params:
    pass  # code
```

- `params` is a dictionary containing the parameters that will change during different trainings and which will be
  compared for performance at the end.

### 1. During Training

The target is to keep the hyper-parameters used for training as close as possible to the history of the training. This
way, is it possible to evaluate the performances of a neural network and of its training.

Add the parameter `hyper_param` to the function `nn_kfold_train` where it is passed down to the
function `initialise_estimator`:

```python
net, estimator_history = corai.nn_kfold_train(train_X, train_Y,
                                              model_class, params_training,
                                              early_stoppers,
                                              nb_split, shuffle_kfold, percent_val_for_1_fold,
                                              silent,
                                              hyper_param=param)
#################
# inside the function:
#################

estimator_history = corai.initialise_estimator(compute_validation, param_train,
                                               train_param_dict=param)
```

This way, the hyper-parameters used are stored as meta-data in the estimator.

#### Unique ID for identification

By using a unique id, one can link by the name the results of the training (the saved net) and the hyper-parameters
used.

One can proceed in the following way:

1. Keeping an index to be used as an id while iterating over the `hyper_params`,

```python
for id, params in enumerate(hyper_params):
    pass  # code
```

2. Adding the id to the `params` dictionary,

```python
params['id'] = id
```

After this step, the `params` should look like:

```python
params = {
    'id': 0,
    'lr': 0.0001,
    'activation_function': 'tanh',
    'dropout': 0.,
    'list_hidden_sizes': [2, 4, 2]
}
```

3. Using the id as part of the filename when saving the net.

```python
file_name = f'some_name_{id}'
net.save_net(path=os.path.join(some_path, file_name))
```

### 2. Creating an `Estim_hyper_param`

An `estim_hyper_param` is an estimator used to store information related to different training configurations and their
performance. The columns of the estimator are the names of the parameters we want to follow, the metrics we choose for
comparison and, optionally, the training time. Each line of the estimator will represent a configuration.

The library offers three ways to create an `Estim_hyper_param`:

#### 2.a From a list

One can create an `Estim_hyper_param` from an existing list of `Estim_history` estimators. Following the example above,
one could've appended every `estim_history` to a list after each training.

- Using the list `estims`:

```python
estim_hyper_param = corai.Estim_hyper_param.from_list(estims, metric_names, flg_time)
```

- If the flat flg_time is set to `True` the training times will also be stored besides any metric results.

#### 2.b From a folder

If instead of appending all of `estim_history` estimators to a list one decides to save them individually as **json**
files, all in the same folder, they can then be retrieved using the path:

```python
estim_hyper_param = corai.Estim_hyper_param.from_folder(path, metric_names, flg_time, compressed)
```

#### 2.c From a json/csv file

If the `estim_hyper_param` was previously stored as a json/csv file it can be retrieved using the path.

```python
estim_hyper_param = corai.Estim_hyper_param.from_csv(path)
# or
estim_hyper_param = corai.Estim_hyper_param.from_json(path)

```

### 3.Slicing

The resulting estimator can be sliced. That way, it is possible to visualise only part of the data with the plotters. In
order to slice one needs to first define the slicing condition:

```python
condition = lambda column: column <= 2
```

The we can use the `slice` function to slice the estimator by applying the condition defined above to a column.

```python
sliced_datafram = estim_hyper_param.slice(column, condition)
```

We can also update the estimator if we want the change to be inplace.

```python
estim_hyper_param.slice(column, condition, save=True)
```

### 4. Plotting

It is possible to observe the impact of hyper-parameters upon the final losses very easily. Either one can make a
scatter-plot of the losses, or make the distribution of an attribute with respect to the hyper-parameter.

#### 4.1 Relplot

Relplots are used for showing evolution of a feature with respect to another as a time-series.

`Relplot_hyper_param` is initialised with the data used for plotting.

```python
relplot_hyperparam = corai.Relplot_hyper_param(estimator=estim_hyper_param)
```

The scatter-plot can be used for visualising the influence of one parameter over the results.

For example, one can plot two metrics with respect to each other. It is also possible to change influence the way the
points are plot with respect ot some other criteria: here the `train_time`.

```python
relplot_hyperparam.scatter(column_name_draw='loss_training',
                           second_column_to_draw_abscissa='loss_validation',
                           hue='train_time',
                           hue_norm=(0, 30),
                           legend=False)
```

![alt text](Tutorial_estim_hyperparam_sin_scatter.png?raw=true "Title")

*Image obtained by running `corai/tests/examples_of_tasks/example_hyper_param.py`, whole dataset*

#### 4.2 Distplot

Distplots are used for observing the underlying distribution of the data.

`Distplot_hyper_param` is initialised with the data used for plotting.

```python
distplot_hyperparam = corai.Distplot_hyper_param(estimator=estim_hyper_param)
```

```python
distplot_hyperparam.hist(column_name_draw='loss_validation',
                         separators_plot=None,
                         hue='lr',
                         palette='RdYlBu',
                         bins=20,
                         binrange=None,
                         stat='count',
                         multiple='dodge',
                         kde=True,
                         path_save_plot=None)
```

![alt text](Tutorial_estim_hyperparam_sin_hist_lr.png?raw=true "Title")

*Image obtained by running corai/tests/examples_of_tasks/example_hyper_param.py, whole dataset*

```python
distplot_hyperparam.hist(column_name_draw='train_time',
                         separators_plot=None,
                         hue='dropout',
                         palette='RdYlBu',
                         bins=50,
                         binrange=None,
                         stat='count',
                         multiple='stack',
                         kde=False,
                         path_save_plot=None)
```

![alt text](Tutorial_estim_hyperparam_sin_hist_dropout_slice.png?raw=true "Title")

*Image obtained by running corai/tests/examples_of_tasks/example_hyper_param.py, dataset sliced with condition from 3.*

### 5. Loading the best model

Once one has analysed the performance of the different models, how can he fetch the best model? The worst case scenario
is when the models have been deleted already. In that case, we need to load the parameters and recreate the model, and
then load the trained parameters inside the model.

Assuming all the models' performance are stored in an `Estim_hyper_param`, it is very easy to order them, and get the
index of the best one. This index corresponds to the name of the file where the data has been stored, if one has
followed the convention of saving models and performance with a number (0 - nb of different models).

The ordering is done with `get_best_by` and returns a dataframe with only the best nets.

```python
df_best = estim_hyper_param.get_best_by(metrics='loss_validation', count=3)
print(df_best.to_string())
index_best = df_best.index[0]  # best model
path2net_best = os.path.join(PATH_FOLDER_MODELS, f"model_{index_best}.pth")
path2estim_best = os.path.join(PATH_FOLDER_ESTIMS, f"estim_{index_best}.json")

config_architecture_second_elmt = lambda param: config_architecture(param)[1]  # fetch only the class
best_model = create_model_by_index(index_best, PATH_JSON_PARAMS,
                                   path2net_best, config_architecture_second_elmt,
                                   mapping_names2functions=mapping_names2functions)
```

We used above the function `create_model_by_index`. It takes the index of the model we want to create (corresponding to
the index inside the list of parameters). The list of parameters is a `json` where the parameters from the product have
been stored. It is created simply as:

```python
params_options = {
    "architecture": ["fcnn"],
    "seed": [42, 124],
    "lr": [0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.],
    'activation_function': ['tanh', 'relu', 'celu'],
    "dropout": [0., 0.2, 0.5],
    "list_hidden_sizes": [[2, 4, 2], [4, 8, 4], [16, 32, 16], [2, 32, 2], [32, 128, 32]], }

# convert parameters to the product of the parameters
hyper_params = function_dict.parameter_product(params_options)
```

The function `create_model_by_index` also takes the path towards the trained parameters of the model. Finally,
`config_architecture_second_elmt` correspond to a function that is able to create 
the model if given the parameters fetch from the `json`. 

### More info:

- The `net` can be saved to file for later use. For more details
  check: `corai/src/classes/architecture/how_to_new_architectures.md`
- For more details on estimators check: `corai_estimator/how_to_use_estimators_and_plotters.md`.

Commit message:

the tutorial for estim hyperparameter precised for numbering.

corai/src/classes/estimator/hyper_parameters/tutorial_estim_hyperparameter.md, after:

# Hyper-parameters example

The tutorial follows closely the `tests/example_hyper_param.py` file.

### 0. Setup (Grid search)

The library offers an easy way to produce all the combinations of the parameters tweaked: a grid search regarding a list
of parameters.

- Define the options for each parameter as a dictionary of lists:

```python
params_options = {
    'lr': [0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.1],
    'activation_function': ['tanh'],
    'dropout': [0., 0.2, 0.5],
    'list_hidden_sizes': [[2, 4, 2], [4, 8, 4]]
}
```

- Use the `parameter_product` function (from `corai_util`) to produce all the possible combinations in the format of a
  list:

```python
hyper_params = corai_util.function_dict.parameter_product(params_options)
for params in hyper_params:
    pass  # code
```

- `params` is a dictionary containing the parameters that will change during different trainings and which will be
  compared for performance at the end.

### 1. During Training

The target is to keep the hyper-parameters used for training as close as possible to the history of the training. This
way, is it possible to evaluate the performances of a neural network and of its training.

Add the parameter `hyper_param` to the function `nn_kfold_train` where it is passed down to the
function `initialise_estimator`:

```python
net, estimator_history = corai.nn_kfold_train(train_X, train_Y,
                                              model_class, params_training,
                                              early_stoppers,
                                              nb_split, shuffle_kfold, percent_val_for_1_fold,
                                              silent,
                                              hyper_param=param)
#################
# inside the function:
#################

estimator_history = corai.initialise_estimator(compute_validation, param_train,
                                               train_param_dict=param)
```

This way, the hyper-parameters used are stored as meta-data in the estimator.

#### Unique ID for identification

By using a unique id, one can link by the name the results of the training (the saved net) and the hyper-parameters
used.

One can proceed in the following way:

1. Keeping an index to be used as an id while iterating over the `hyper_params`,

```python
for id, params in enumerate(hyper_params):
    pass  # code
```

2. Adding the id to the `params` dictionary,

```python
params['id'] = id
```

After this step, the `params` should look like:

```python
params = {
    'id': 0,
    'lr': 0.0001,
    'activation_function': 'tanh',
    'dropout': 0.,
    'list_hidden_sizes': [2, 4, 2]
}
```

3. Using the id as part of the filename when saving the net.

```python
file_name = f'some_name_{id}'
net.save_net(path=os.path.join(some_path, file_name))
```

### 2. Creating an `Estim_hyper_param`

An `estim_hyper_param` is an estimator used to store information related to different training configurations and their
performance. The columns of the estimator are the names of the parameters we want to follow, the metrics we choose for
comparison and, optionally, the training time. Each line of the estimator will represent a configuration.

The library offers three ways to create an `Estim_hyper_param`:

#### 2.a From a list

One can create an `Estim_hyper_param` from an existing list of `Estim_history` estimators. Following the example above,
one could've appended every `estim_history` to a list after each training.

- Using the list `estims`:

```python
estim_hyper_param = corai.Estim_hyper_param.from_list(estims, metric_names, flg_time)
```

- If the flat flg_time is set to `True` the training times will also be stored besides any metric results.

#### 2.b From a folder

If instead of appending all of `estim_history` estimators to a list one decides to save them individually as **json**
files, all in the same folder, they can then be retrieved using the path:

```python
estim_hyper_param = corai.Estim_hyper_param.from_folder(path, metric_names, flg_time, compressed)
```

#### 2.c From a json/csv file

If the `estim_hyper_param` was previously stored as a json/csv file it can be retrieved using the path.

```python
estim_hyper_param = corai.Estim_hyper_param.from_csv(path)
# or
estim_hyper_param = corai.Estim_hyper_param.from_json(path)

```

### 3.Slicing

The resulting estimator can be sliced. That way, it is possible to visualise only part of the data with the plotters. In
order to slice one needs to first define the slicing condition:

```python
condition = lambda column: column <= 2
```

The we can use the `slice` function to slice the estimator by applying the condition defined above to a column.

```python
sliced_datafram = estim_hyper_param.slice(column, condition)
```

We can also update the estimator if we want the change to be inplace.

```python
estim_hyper_param.slice(column, condition, save=True)
```

### 4. Plotting

It is possible to observe the impact of hyper-parameters upon the final losses very easily. Either one can make a
scatter-plot of the losses, or make the distribution of an attribute with respect to the hyper-parameter.

#### 4.1 Relplot

Relplots are used for showing evolution of a feature with respect to another as a time-series.

`Relplot_hyper_param` is initialised with the data used for plotting.

```python
relplot_hyperparam = corai.Relplot_hyper_param(estimator=estim_hyper_param)
```

The scatter-plot can be used for visualising the influence of one parameter over the results.

For example, one can plot two metrics with respect to each other. It is also possible to change influence the way the
points are plot with respect ot some other criteria: here the `train_time`.

```python
relplot_hyperparam.scatter(column_name_draw='loss_training',
                           second_column_to_draw_abscissa='loss_validation',
                           hue='train_time',
                           hue_norm=(0, 30),
                           legend=False)
```

![alt text](Tutorial_estim_hyperparam_sin_scatter.png?raw=true "Title")

*Image obtained by running `corai/tests/examples_of_tasks/example_hyper_param.py`, whole dataset*

#### 4.2 Distplot

Distplots are used for observing the underlying distribution of the data.

`Distplot_hyper_param` is initialised with the data used for plotting.

```python
distplot_hyperparam = corai.Distplot_hyper_param(estimator=estim_hyper_param)
```

```python
distplot_hyperparam.hist(column_name_draw='loss_validation',
                         separators_plot=None,
                         hue='lr',
                         palette='RdYlBu',
                         bins=20,
                         binrange=None,
                         stat='count',
                         multiple='dodge',
                         kde=True,
                         path_save_plot=None)
```

![alt text](Tutorial_estim_hyperparam_sin_hist_lr.png?raw=true "Title")

*Image obtained by running corai/tests/examples_of_tasks/example_hyper_param.py, whole dataset*

```python
distplot_hyperparam.hist(column_name_draw='train_time',
                         separators_plot=None,
                         hue='dropout',
                         palette='RdYlBu',
                         bins=50,
                         binrange=None,
                         stat='count',
                         multiple='stack',
                         kde=False,
                         path_save_plot=None)
```

![alt text](Tutorial_estim_hyperparam_sin_hist_dropout_slice.png?raw=true "Title")

*Image obtained by running corai/tests/examples_of_tasks/example_hyper_param.py, dataset sliced with condition from 3.*

### 5. Loading the best model

#### 5.1 How to proceed?

Once one has analysed the performance of the different models, how can he fetch the best model? The worst case scenario
is when the models have been deleted already. In that case, we need to load the parameters and recreate the model, and
then load the trained parameters inside the model.

Assuming all the models' performance are stored in an `Estim_hyper_param`, it is very easy to order them, and get the
index of the best one. This index corresponds to the name of the file where the data has been stored, if one has
followed the convention of saving models and performance with a number (0 - nb of different models).

The ordering is done with `get_best_by` and returns a dataframe with only the best nets.

```python
df_best = estim_hyper_param.get_best_by(metrics='loss_validation', count=3)
print(df_best.to_string())
index_best = df_best.index[0]  # best model
path2net_best = os.path.join(PATH_FOLDER_MODELS, f"model_{index_best}.pth")
path2estim_best = os.path.join(PATH_FOLDER_ESTIMS, f"estim_{index_best}.json")

config_architecture_second_elmt = lambda param: config_architecture(param)[1]  # fetch only the class
best_model = create_model_by_index(index_best, PATH_JSON_PARAMS,
                                   path2net_best, config_architecture_second_elmt,
                                   mapping_names2functions=mapping_names2functions)
```

We used above the function `create_model_by_index`. It takes the index of the model we want to create (corresponding to
the index inside the list of parameters). The list of parameters is a `json` where the parameters from the product have
been stored. It is created simply as:

```python
params_options = {
    "architecture": ["fcnn"],
    "seed": [42, 124],
    "lr": [0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.],
    'activation_function': ['tanh', 'relu', 'celu'],
    "dropout": [0., 0.2, 0.5],
    "list_hidden_sizes": [[2, 4, 2], [4, 8, 4], [16, 32, 16], [2, 32, 2], [32, 128, 32]], }

# convert parameters to the product of the parameters
hyper_params = function_dict.parameter_product(params_options)
```

The function `create_model_by_index` also takes the path towards the trained parameters of the model. Finally,
`config_architecture_second_elmt` correspond to a function that is able to create 
the model if given the parameters fetch from the `json`. 

#### 5.2 Numbering of files

The best practice is to save all the files from 0-nb of models. 
That way, there is no issue between the file with the parameters (where we use line 0 as the first line of the file),
the different files with the performance and the parameters saved, as well as the dataframes 
where we order the performances.


### More info:

- The `net` can be saved to file for later use. For more details
  check: `corai/src/classes/architecture/how_to_new_architectures.md`
- For more details on estimators check: `corai_estimator/how_to_use_estimators_and_plotters.md`.
