priv_lib_ml/Tutorial_hyperparameter.md, before:

# Hyper-parameters example
The tutorial follows closely the `example_hyper_param.py` file.
### 0. Setup (Grid search)
The library offers an easy way to produce all the combinations of the parameters tweaked: a grid search regarding a list of parameters.
 - Define the options for each parameter as a dictionary of lists:
```python
params_options = {
    "lr": [0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.1],
    'activation_function': ['tanh'],
    "dropout": [0., 0.2, 0.5],
    "list_hidden_sizes": [[2, 4, 2], [4, 8, 4]],
}
```

- Use the `parameter_product` function to produce all the possible combinations in the format of a list:


```python
hyper_params = parameter_product(params_options)
for params in hyper_params:
    pass # code
```

- `params` is a dictionary containing the parameters that will change during different trainings and
  which will be compared for performance at the end. 

### 1. During Training

By using a unique id, one can connect the results of the training and 
the hyper-parameters used to the previously saved net.

This can be done by:
- Keeping an index to be used as an id while iterating over the `hyper_params`,
```python
for id, params in enumerate(hyper_params):
    pass # code
```
- Adding the id to the `params` dictionary,
```python
params['id'] = id
```
- Using the id as part of the filename when saving the net.
```python
file_name = f'some_name_{id}'
net.save_net(path=os.path.join(some_path, file_name))
```

Now, add the parameter `hyper_param` to the function `nn_kfold_train` or in the function `initialise_estimator`:

```python
net, estimator_history = nn_kfold_train(train_X,
                                        train_Y,
                                        model_class,
                                        params_training,
                                        early_stoppers,
                                        nb_split,
                                        shuffle_kfold,
                                        percent_val_for_1_fold,
                                        silent,
                                        hyper_param=param)
```

```python
estimator_history = initialise_estimator(compute_validation,
                                         param_train,
                                         train_param_dict=param)
```

This way, the hyper-parameters used are stored as meta-data in the estimator.
This allows to know which model corresponds to what parameters.

### 2. Creating an `Estim_hyper_param`

The library offers three ways of creating an `Estim_hyper_param`:

#### 2.a From list

One can create an `Estim_hyper_param` from an existing list of `Estim_hisotry` estimators.
Following the example above, one could've appended every `estim_history` to a list after each training.

- Using the list `estims`:
```python
estim_hyper_param = Estim_hyper_param.from_list(estims,
                                                metric_names,
                                                flg_time)
```

- If the flat flg_time is set to `True` the training times will also be stored besides any metric results.

#### 2.b From folder

If instead of appending all of `estim_history` estimators to a list one 
decides to save them individually as **json** files, 
all in the same folder, they can then be retrieved using the path:
 
```python
estim_hyper_param = Estim_hyper_param.from_folder(path,
                                                  metric_names,
                                                  flg_time,
                                                  compressed)
```

#### 2.c From CSV
If the `estim_hyper_param` was previously stored as a csv file it can be retrieved using the path.

```python
estim_hyper_param = Estim_hyper_param.from_csv(path)
```

### Slicing
The resulting estimator can be slices to only look at part of the data.
In order to slice one needs to first define the slicing condition:
```python
condition = lambda column: column <= 2
```
The we can use the `slice` function to slice the estimator by applying the condition defined above to a column.

```python
sliced_datafram = estim_hyper_param.slice(column, condition)
```

We can also update the estimator if we want the change to be inplace.
```python
estim_hyper_param.slice(column, condition, save=True)
```


### Next steps:
- The `net` can be saved to file for later use. For more details check: *priv_lib_ml/src/classes/architecture/how_to_new_architectures.md*
  
- For more details on estimators check: *priv_lib_estimator/how_to_use_estimators_and_plotters.MD*

Commit message:

Update todos, Tutorial_hyperparameter.md, Tutorial_training.md

priv_lib_ml/Tutorial_hyperparameter.md, after:

# Hyper-parameters example
The tutorial follows closely the `example_hyper_param.py` file.
### 0. Setup (Grid search)
The library offers an easy way to produce all the combinations of the parameters tweaked: a grid search regarding a list of parameters.
 - Define the options for each parameter as a dictionary of lists:
```python
params_options = {
    "lr": [0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.1],
    'activation_function': ['tanh'],
    "dropout": [0., 0.2, 0.5],
    "list_hidden_sizes": [[2, 4, 2], [4, 8, 4]],
}
```

- Use the `parameter_product` function to produce all the possible combinations in the format of a list:


```python
hyper_params = parameter_product(params_options)
for params in hyper_params:
    pass # code
```

- `params` is a dictionary containing the parameters that will change during different trainings and
  which will be compared for performance at the end. 

### 1. During Training

By using a unique id, one can connect the results of the training and 
the hyper-parameters used to the previously saved net.

This can be done by:
- Keeping an index to be used as an id while iterating over the `hyper_params`,
```python
for id, params in enumerate(hyper_params):
    pass # code
```
- Adding the id to the `params` dictionary,
```python
params['id'] = id
```
- Using the id as part of the filename when saving the net.
```python
file_name = f'some_name_{id}'
net.save_net(path=os.path.join(some_path, file_name))
```

Now, add the parameter `hyper_param` to the function `nn_kfold_train` or in the function `initialise_estimator`:

```python
net, estimator_history = nn_kfold_train(train_X,
                                        train_Y,
                                        model_class,
                                        params_training,
                                        early_stoppers,
                                        nb_split,
                                        shuffle_kfold,
                                        percent_val_for_1_fold,
                                        silent,
                                        hyper_param=param)
```

```python
estimator_history = initialise_estimator(compute_validation,
                                         param_train,
                                         train_param_dict=param)
```

This way, the hyper-parameters used are stored as meta-data in the estimator.
This allows to know which model corresponds to what parameters.

### 2. Creating an `Estim_hyper_param`

An `estim_hyper_param` is an estimator used to store information related to different training configurations
and their performance. The columns of the estimator are the names of the parameters we want to follow, 
the metrics we choose for comparison and, optionally, the training time. Each line of the estimator 
will represent a configuration.

The library offers three ways of creating an `Estim_hyper_param`:

#### 2.a From list

One can create an `Estim_hyper_param` from an existing list of `Estim_hisotry` estimators.
Following the example above, one could've appended every `estim_history` to a list after each training.

- Using the list `estims`:
```python
estim_hyper_param = Estim_hyper_param.from_list(estims,
                                                metric_names,
                                                flg_time)
```

- If the flat flg_time is set to `True` the training times will also be stored besides any metric results.

#### 2.b From folder

If instead of appending all of `estim_history` estimators to a list one 
decides to save them individually as **json** files, 
all in the same folder, they can then be retrieved using the path:
 
```python
estim_hyper_param = Estim_hyper_param.from_folder(path,
                                                  metric_names,
                                                  flg_time,
                                                  compressed)
```

#### 2.c From CSV
If the `estim_hyper_param` was previously stored as a csv file it can be retrieved using the path.

```python
estim_hyper_param = Estim_hyper_param.from_csv(path)
```

### Slicing
The resulting estimator can be slices to only look at part of the data.
In order to slice one needs to first define the slicing condition:
```python
condition = lambda column: column <= 2
```
The we can use the `slice` function to slice the estimator by applying the condition defined above to a column.

```python
sliced_datafram = estim_hyper_param.slice(column, condition)
```

We can also update the estimator if we want the change to be inplace.
```python
estim_hyper_param.slice(column, condition, save=True)
```


### Next steps:
- The `net` can be saved to file for later use. For more details check: *priv_lib_ml/src/classes/architecture/how_to_new_architectures.md*
  
- For more details on estimators check: *priv_lib_estimator/how_to_use_estimators_and_plotters.MD*
